---
layout: post
title: Array.filter()
subtitle: 原生JavaScript学习笔记系列
date: 2019-04-07
author: Jalever
header-img: img/post-bg-js-version.jpg
catalog: true
tags:
  - Array
  - Array方法
  - JavaScript
  - Plain JavaScript
---

- [Definition](#definition)
- [Syntax](#syntax)
    - [Parameters](#parameters)
        - [callback](#callback)
        - [thisArg](#thisarg)
    - [Return Value](#return-value)
- [Usage](#usage)

## Definition

The `filter()` method creates a new array with all elements that pass the test implemented by the provided function.

## Syntax

```javascript
var newArray = arr.filter(callback(element[, index[, array]])[, thisArg])
```

#### Parameters

###### callback

Function is a predicate, to test each element of the array.<br>
Return true to keep the element, false otherwise. <br>
`filter()` calls a provided callback function ***once for each element*** in an array, and constructs a new array of all the values for which callback returns a value that coerces to true.<br> 
`callback` is invoked only for indexes of the array which have assigned values.<br>
it is not invoked for indexes which have been deleted or which have never been assigned values<br>
`Array` elements which do not pass the callback test are simply skipped, and are not included in the new array.<br>
`filter()` does not mutate the array on which it is called.<br>
It accepts three arguments:

- element
  1. The current element being processed in the array.
- index
  1. Optional
  2. The index of the current element being processed in the array.
- array
  1. Optional
  2. The array filter was called upon.

###### thisArg

- Optional
- Value to use as `this` when executing callback.

#### Return Value

A new array with the elements that pass the test. <br>
If no elements pass the test, an empty array will be returned.

## Usage

```javascript
var words = ["spray", "limit", "elite", "exuberant", "destruction", "present"];

const result = words.filter(word => word.length > 6);

console.log(result);
// expected output: Array ["exuberant", "destruction", "present"]
```
