---
layout: post
title: Devtool
subtitle: Webpack Configuration 12学习笔记系列
date: 2019-04-05
author: Jalever
header-img: img/post-bg-star.jpg
catalog: true
tags:
  - Webpack
---
- [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [devtool](#devtool)
  - [Qualities](#qualities)
      - [generated code](#generated-code)
      - [transformed code](#transformed-code)
      - [original source](#original-source)
      - [without source content](#without-source-content)
      - [&#40;lines only&#41;](#40lines-only41)
  - [Development](#development)
      - [eval](#eval)
      - [eval-source-map](#eval-source-map)
      - [cheap-eval-source-map](#cheap-eval-source-map)
      - [cheap-module-eval-source-map](#cheap-module-eval-source-map)
  - [Special Cases](#special-cases)
      - [inline-source-map](#inline-source-map)
      - [cheap-source-map](#cheap-source-map)
      - [inline-cheap-source-map](#inline-cheap-source-map)
      - [cheap-module-source-map](#cheap-module-source-map)
      - [inline-cheap-module-source-map](#inline-cheap-module-source-map)
  - [Production](#production)
      - [&#40;none&#41;](#40none41)
      - [source-map](#source-map)
      - [hidden-source-map](#hidden-source-map)
      - [nosources-source-map](#nosources-source-map)

# Table of Contents

## devtool
Choose a style of source mapping to enhance the debugging process.
> `+++` super fast, `++` fast, `+` pretty fast, `0` medium, `-` pretty slow, `--` slow

| devtool                        | build | rebuild | production | quality                               |
| ------------------------------ | ----- | ------- | ---------- | ------------------------------------- |
| none                           | +++   | +++     | yes        | bundled code                          |
| eval                           | +++   | +++     | no         | generated code                        |
| cheap-eval-source-map          | +     | ++      | no         | transformed code &#40;lines only&#41; |
| cheap-module-eval-source-map   | 0     | ++      | no         | original source &#40;lines only&#41;  |
| eval-source-map                | --    | +       | no         | original source                       |
| cheap-source-map               | +     | 0       | yes        | transformed code &#40;lines only&#41; |
| cheap-module-source-map        | 0     | -       | yes        | original source &#40;lines only&#41;  |
| inline-cheap-source-map        | +     | 0       | no         | transformed code &#40;lines only&#41; |
| inline-cheap-module-source-map | 0     | -       | no         | original source &#40;lines only&#41;  |
| source-map                     | --    | --      | yes        | original source                       |
| inline-source-map              | --    | --      | no         | original source                       |
| hidden-source-map              | --    | --      | yes        | original source                       |
| nosources-source-map           | --    | --      | yes        | without source content                |

- none
<br>
- source map
<br>
- nosources-source-map
<br>
- eval
- eval-source-map
<br>
- cheap-source-map
- cheap-eval-source-map
- cheap-module-source-map
- cheap-module-eval-source-map
<br>
- inline-source-map
- inline-cheap-source-map
- inline-cheap-module-source-map
<br>
- hidden-source-map

## Qualities

#### generated code
You see all generated code as a big blob of code. <br>
You don't see modules separated from each other.<br>
Example:<br>
Instead of <br>
```javascript
import {test} from "module"; test();
```
you see something like<br>
```javascript
var module__WEBPACK_IMPORTED_MODULE_1__ = __webpack_require__(42); 
module__WEBPACK_IMPORTED_MODULE_1__.a();
```

#### transformed code
You see each module separated from each other, annotated with module names. <br>
You see the code before webpack transforms it, but after `Loaders` transpile it<br>
Example:<br>
Instead of <br>
```javascript
import {test} from "module"; 
class A extends test {}
```
you see something like<br>
```javascript
import {test} from "module"; 
var A = function(_test) { ... }(test);
```

#### original source
You see each module separated from each other, annotated with module names.<br> 
You see the code before transpilation, as you authored it. <br>
This depends on `Loader` support.

#### without source content
`Contents` for the sources are not included in the `Source Maps`. <br>
Browsers usually try to load the source from the webserver or filesystem. <br>
You have to make sure to set `output.devtoolModuleFilenameTemplate` correctly to match source urls.

#### &#40;lines only&#41;
`Source Maps` are simplified to a single mapping per line. <br>
This usually means a single mapping per statement (assuming you author it this way). <br>
This ***prevents*** you from `debugging execution on statement level` and from `settings breakpoints on columns of a line`. <br>
`Combining with minimizing` is ***not possible*** as minimizers usually only emit a single line.

## Development
#### eval
Each module is executed with `eval()` and `//@ sourceURL`. <br>
This is pretty fast. <br>
The main disadvantage is that it doesn't display line numbers correctly since it gets mapped to `transpiled code` instead of the `original code` (No `Source Maps` from `Loaders`).

#### eval-source-map
Each module is executed with `eval()` and a `SourceMap` is added as a `DataUrl` to the `eval()`. <br>
Initially it is slow, but it provides fast rebuild speed and yields real files. <br>
Line numbers are correctly mapped since it gets mapped to the original code.<br> 
It yields the best quality `SourceMaps` for development.

#### cheap-eval-source-map
Similar to `eval-source-map`, each module is executed with `eval()`. <br>
It is "cheap" because it doesn't have column mappings, it only maps line numbers. <br>
It ignores `SourceMaps` from `Loaders` and only display transpiled code similar to the `eval` devtool.

#### cheap-module-eval-source-map
 Similar to `cheap-eval-source-map`, however, in this case `Source Maps` from `Loaders` are processed for better results. <br>
 However Loader `Source Maps` are simplified to a single mapping per line.

## Special Cases
They are needed for some special cases, i. e. for some ***3rd party tools***.
#### inline-source-map
A `SourceMap` is added as a `DataUrl` to the bundle.

#### cheap-source-map
A `SourceMap` without column-mappings ignoring loader `Source Maps`.

#### inline-cheap-source-map
Similar to `cheap-source-map` but `SourceMap` is added as a `DataUrl` to the bundle.

#### cheap-module-source-map
A `SourceMap` without column-mappings that simplifies loader `Source Maps` to a single mapping per line.

#### inline-cheap-module-source-map
Similar to `cheap-module-source-map` but `SourceMap` is added as a `DataUrl` to the bundle.

## Production
#### &#40;none&#41;
No `SourceMap` is emitted. <br>
This is a good option to start with.

#### source-map
A full `SourceMap` is emitted as a separate file. <br>
It adds a reference comment to the bundle so development tools know where to find it.

#### hidden-source-map
Same as `source-map`, but doesn't add a reference comment to the bundle. <br>
Useful if you only want `SourceMaps` to map error stack traces from error reports, but don't want to expose your `SourceMap` for the browser development tools.

#### nosources-source-map
A `SourceMap` is created without the `sourcesContent` in it. <br>
It can be used to map stack traces on the client without exposing all of the source code. <br>
You can deploy the `Source Map` file to the webserver.

