---
layout: post
title: Console对象
subtitle: Web Development学习笔记系列
date: 2019-04-01
author: Jalever
header-img: img/post-bg-js-version.jpg
catalog: true
tags:
  - Web Development
---

- [Console.assert()](#consoleassert)
- [Console.clear()](#consoleclear)
- [Console.count()](#consolecount)
- [Console.countReset()](#consolecountreset)
- [Console.debug()](#consoledebug)
- [Console.dir()](#consoledir)
- [Console.dirxml()](#consoledirxml)
- [Console.error()](#consoleerror)
- [Console.group()](#consolegroup)
- [Console.groupCollapsed()](#consolegroupcollapsed)
- [Console.groupEnd()](#consolegroupend)
- [Console.info()](#consoleinfo)
- [Console.log()](#consolelog)
- [Console.table()](#consoletable)
- [Console.time()](#consoletime)
- [Console.timeEnd()](#consoletimeend)
- [Console.timeLog()](#consoletimelog)
- [Console.trace()](#consoletrace)
- [Console.warn()](#consolewarn)

## Console.assert()

Log a message and stack trace to console if the first argument is false.

## Console.clear()

Clear the console.

## Console.count()

Log the number of times this line has been called with the given label.

## Console.countReset()

Resets the value of the counter with the given label.

## Console.debug()

Outputs a message to the console with the log level "debug".

## Console.dir()

Displays an interactive listing of the properties of a specified JavaScript object. This listing lets you use disclosure triangles to examine the contents of child objects.

## Console.dirxml()

    Displays an XML/HTML Element representation of the specified object if possible or the JavaScript Object view if it is not possible.

## Console.error()

Outputs an error message. You may use string substitution and additional arguments with this method.

## Console.group()

Creates a new inline group, indenting all following output by another level. To move back out a level, call groupEnd().

## Console.groupCollapsed()

Creates a new inline group, indenting all following output by another level. However, unlike group() this starts with the inline group collapsed requiring the use of a disclosure button to expand it. To move back out a level, call groupEnd().

## Console.groupEnd()

Exits the current inline group.

## Console.info()

Informative logging of information. You may use string substitution and additional arguments with this method.

## Console.log()

For general output of logging information. You may use string substitution and additional arguments with this method.

## Console.table()

Displays tabular data as a table.

## Console.time()

Starts a timer with a name specified as an input parameter. Up to 10,000 simultaneous timers can run on a given page.

## Console.timeEnd()

Stops the specified timer and logs the elapsed time in seconds since it started.

## Console.timeLog()

Logs the value of the specified timer to the console.

## Console.trace()

Outputs a stack trace.

## Console.warn()

Outputs a warning message. You may use string substitution and additional arguments with this method.
