---
layout: post
title: WeakMap
subtitle: 原生JavaScript学习笔记系列
date: 2019-04-20
author: Jalever
header-img: img/post-bg-js-version.jpg
catalog: true
tags:
  - JavaScript
  - Object
  - Plain JavaScript
---

The `WeakMap` object is a collection of `key/value` pairs in which the keys are weakly referenced.<br>
The keys must be `objects` and the `values` can be arbitrary values.<br>
Keys of `WeakMaps` are of the type `Object` only.

`Map` have two main inconveniences:

- an `O(n)` set and search (`n` being the number of keys in the map) since both operations must iterate through the list of keys to find a matching value.
- A `memory leak` because the arrays ensure that references to each key and each value are maintained indefinitely.These references prevent the `keys` from being garbage collected, even if there are no other references to the object. This would also prevent the corresponding values from being garbage collected.

By contrast, native `WeakMaps` hold "weak" references to key objects, which means that they do not prevent garbage collection in case there would be no other reference to the key object.

## Properties

- WeakMap.length
- WeakMap.prototype

## Map instances

All `WeakMap` instances inherit from `WeakMap.prototype`.

#### Properties

- WeakMap.prototype.constructor

#### Methods

- `WeakMap.prototype.delete(key)`
  Removes any value associated to the key. <br>
  `WeakMap.prototype.has(key)` will return false afterwards.
- `WeakMap.prototype.get(key)`
  Returns the value associated to the key, or `undefined` if there is none.
- `WeakMap.prototype.has(key)`
  Returns a `Boolean` asserting whether a value has been associated to the key in the `WeakMap` object or not.
- `WeakMap.prototype.set(key, value)`
  Sets the value for the key in the `WeakMap` object.<br>
  Returns the `WeakMap` object.
