---
layout: post
title: Promise
subtitle: Web Development学习笔记系列
date: 2019-04-17
author: Jalever
header-img: img/home_bg_black.png
catalog: true
tags:
  - Web Development
---

- [Definition](#definition)
- [Syntax](#syntax)
    - [Parameters](#parameters)
        - [executor](#executor)
- [Properties](#properties)
    - [Promise.length](#promiselength)
    - [Promise.prototype](#promiseprototype)
- [Methods](#methods)
    - [Promise.all(iterable)](#promisealliterable)
    - [Promise.race(iterable)](#promiseraceiterable)
    - [Promise.reject()](#promisereject)
    - [Promise.resolve()](#promiseresolve)
- [Usage](#usage)

## Definition

A `Promise` is a proxy for a value not necessarily known when the promise is created.<br>
It allows you to associate handlers with an asynchronous action's eventual success value or failure reason.<br>
This lets asynchronous methods return values like synchronous methods: instead of immediately returning the final value, the asynchronous method returns a promise to supply the value at some point in the future.

A `Promise` is in one of these states:

- **_pending_**:
  initial state, neither `fulfilled` nor `rejected`
- **_fulfilled_**:
  meaning that the operation completed successfully
- **_rejected_**:
  meaning that the operation failed

A pending promise can either be `fulfilled` with a value, or `rejected` with a reason (error).<br>

When either of these options happens, the associated handlers queued up by a promise's then method are called.<br>

## Syntax

```javascript
new Promise(executor);
```

#### Parameters

###### executor

A function that is passed with the arguments `resolve` and `reject`. <br>
The executor function is executed immediately by the `Promise` implementation, passing `resolve` and `reject` functions (the executor is called before the `Promise` constructor even returns the created object). <br>
The `resolve` and `reject` functions, when called, `resolve` or `reject` the promise, respectively. <br>
The executor normally initiates some asynchronous work, and then, once that completes, either calls the `resolve function` to resolve the promise or else rejects it if an error occurred. <br>
If an error is thrown in the executor function, the promise is rejected. <br>
The return value of the executor is ignored.<br>

## Properties

#### Promise.length

#### Promise.prototype

## Methods

#### Promise.all(iterable)
Returns a `promise` that either `fulfills` when <ins>all of the promises in the iterable argument have fulfilled</ins> or `rejects` as soon as <ins>one of the promises in the iterable argument rejects</ins>. <br>
If the returned promise fulfills, it is fulfilled with an array of the values from the fulfilled promises in the same order as defined in the iterable. <br>
If the returned promise rejects, it is rejected with the reason from the first promise in the iterable that rejected. <br>
This method can be useful for aggregating results of multiple promises.

#### Promise.race(iterable)
Returns a promise that `fulfills` or `rejects` as soon as one of the promises in the iterable `fulfills` or `rejects`, with the value or reason from that promise.

#### Promise.reject()

#### Promise.resolve()

## Usage
