---
layout: post
title: Array.some()
subtitle: 原生JavaScript学习笔记系列
date: 2019-04-19
author: Jalever
header-img: img/post-bg-js-version.jpg
catalog: true
tags:
  - Array
---

- [Definition](#definition)
- [Syntax](#syntax)
    - [Parameters](#parameters)
        - [callback](#callback)
        - [thisArg](#thisarg)
    - [Return Value](#return-value)
- [Usage](#usage)

## Definition

`some()` executes the `callback` function once for each element present in the array until it finds one where `callback` returns a truthy value (a value that becomes true when converted to a `Boolean`).<br>

`callback` is invoked only for indexes of the array which have assigned values; it is not invoked for indexes which have been deleted or which have never been assigned values.<br>

callback is invoked with three arguments: the value of the element, the index of the element, and the array object being traversed.<br>

If a `thisArg` parameter is provided to `some()`, it will be used as callbacks' `this` value. Otherwise, the value `undefined` will be used as its this value. The `this` value ultimately observable by `callback` is determined according to the usual rules for determining the this seen by a function.<br>

`some()` does not mutate the array on which it is called.<br>

The range of elements processed by `some()` is set before the first invocation of callback. <br>

Elements that are appended to the array after the call to `some()` begins will not be visited by callback.<br>

If an existing, unvisited element of the array is changed by callback, its value passed to the visiting callback will be the value at the time that `some()` visits that element's index; <br>

elements that are deleted are not visited.<br>

## Syntax

> arr.some(callback(element[, index[, array]])[, thisArg])

#### Parameters

###### callback

Function to test for each element, taking three arguments:

- element
  - The current element being processed in the array.
- index
  - Optional
  - The index of the current element being processed in the array.
- array
  - Optional
  - The array `some()` was called upon.

###### thisArg

- Optional
- Value to use as `this` when executing `callback`.

#### Return Value

`true` if the callback function returns a truthy value for any array element; otherwise, `false`.

## Usage

```javascript
var array = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];

var even = function(element) {
  // checks whether an element is even
  return element % 2 === 0;
};

console.log(array.some(even));
// expected output: true
```
