---
layout: post
title: ReactDOM
subtitle: React学习笔记系列
date: 2019-03-28
author: Jalever
header-img: img/post_2019_react_bg_shadow.jpg
catalog: true
tags:
  - React
---

## Table of Contents

- [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
- [Overview](#overview)
- [Browser Support](#browser-support)
- [Reference](#reference)
    - [render()](#render)
    - [hydrate()](#hydrate)
    - [unmountComponentAtNode()](#unmountcomponentatnode)
    - [findDOMNode()](#finddomnode)
    - [createPortal()](#createportal)

## Overview

The `react-dom` package provides DOM-specific methods that can be used at the top level of your app and as an escape hatch to get outside of the `React` model if you need to.

## Browser Support

`React` supports all popular browsers, including `Internet Explorer 9` and above

## Reference

#### render()
```javascript
ReactDOM.render(element, container[, callback])
```
1. Render a `React` element into the `DOM` in the supplied container and return a reference to the component (or returns `null` for stateless components).
2. If the `React` element was previously rendered into container, this will perform an update on it and only mutate the `DOM` as necessary to reflect the latest `React` element.
3. If the optional callback is provided, it will be executed after the component is rendered or updated.
4. `ReactDOM.render()` controls the contents of the container node you pass in.
5. Any existing `DOM` elements inside are replaced when first called. Later calls use `React`’s `DOM` diffing algorithm for efficient updates.
6. `ReactDOM.render()` does not modify the container node (only modifies the children of the container).
7. If you need a reference to the root `ReactComponent` instance, the preferred solution is to attach a callback ref to the root element.

#### hydrate()
```javascript
ReactDOM.hydrate(element, container[, callback])
```
1. Same as `render()`, but is used to hydrate a container whose `HTML` contents were rendered by `ReactDOMServer`.
2. `React` will attempt to attach event listeners to the existing markup.
3. In development mode, React warns about mismatches during hydration. 
4. If a single element’s attribute or text content is unavoidably different between the server and the client (for example, a timestamp), you may silence the warning by adding `suppressHydrationWarning={true}` to the element.
5. It has the additional ability to attach event listeners to existing markup once React loads

#### unmountComponentAtNode()
```javascript
ReactDOM.unmountComponentAtNode(container)
```
1. Remove a mounted `React` component from the `DOM` and clean up its event handlers and state.
2. If no component was mounted in the container, calling this function does nothing. 
3. Returns `true` if a component was unmounted and `false` if there was no component to unmount.

#### findDOMNode()
```javascript
ReactDOM.findDOMNode(component)
```
1. `findDOMNode` is an ***escape hatch*** used to access the underlying `DOM` node.In most cases, use of this ***escape hatch*** is discouraged because it pierces the component abstraction.It has been deprecated in `StrictMode`.
2. If this component has been mounted into the `DOM`, this returns the corresponding native browser `DOM` element.
3. This method is useful for reading values out of the `DOM`, such as form field values and performing `DOM` measurements.
4. In most cases, you can attach a `ref` to the `DOM` node and avoid using `findDOMNode` at all.
5. When a component renders to `null` or `false`, `findDOMNode` returns null.
6. When a component renders to a string, `findDOMNode` returns a `text DOM node` containing that value. 
7. As of `React 16`, a component may return a fragment with multiple children, in which case findDOMNode will return the `DOM` node corresponding to the first non-empty child.
8. `findDOMNode` cannot be used on function components.
9. `findDOMNode` only works on mounted components (that is, components that have been placed in the `DOM`). If you try to call this on a component that has not been mounted yet (like calling `findDOMNode()` in `render()` on a component that has yet to be created) an exception will be thrown.

#### createPortal()
```javascript
ReactDOM.createPortal(child, container)
```
1. Creates a portal
2. `Portals` provide a way to render children into a `DOM` node that exists outside the hierarchy of the `DOM` component